### What is S3?
- Simple Storage Service
- S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly-scalable 
object storage.
- The data is stored across multiple devices and facilities.
- Files from 0 to 5TB
- Unlimited storage

### What are S3 buckets?
- A place where files are stored, similar to a folder.
- A bucket has a unique name.

### How do you know if an S3 file upload is successful?
- You'll get a 200 response (note this is when using the API)

### What is a PUT with S3?
- Initially upload an object to S3
- The file is available to read immediately if creating a new object
- PUTs as overwrite or delete can take time to propagate

### What is considered an object in S3?
- Key (The object's name)
- Value (The data)
- Version ID
- Metadata
- Subresources
    - Bucket policies
    - Access control lists
    - CORS
    - Transfer Acceleration
   
### What is S3's built for availability?
- 99.9%

### What is S3 durability garuntee?
- 99.999999999 (11 nines)
- That's losing 1 object every 10 thousand years.
- Tiered storage
- Lifecycle management
- Versioning
- Encryption
- Secure your data
    - Access control lists and policies
    
### Describe the S3 standard tier.
- 99.99% availability
- 99.999999999% durability
- Designed to sustain loss of 2 facilities concurrently

### Describe the S3 - IA (Infrequently Accessed):
- 99.99% availability
- 99.999999999% durability
- Designed to sustain loss of 2 facilities concurrently
- For data accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. 
Lower fee than S3, but you are charged a retrieval fee.

### Describe the S3 - One Zone IA:
- Same as IA, but only stored in a single availability
- 99.999999999 durability
- 99.5% availability
- Cost is 20% less than regular S3 -IA

### Describe the S3 Reduced Redundancy Storage tier:
- 99.99% durability
- 99.99 availability of objects over a given year
- Used for data that can be recreated if lost

### Describe Glacier:
- Very cheap, but used for archival only
- Optimised for data that is infrequently accessed and takes 3-5 hours to 
restore from Glacier

### Describe S3 Intelligent tiering
- Unknown or unpredictable access patterns
- 2 tiers - frequent and infrequent access
- Automatically moves your data to most const-effective tier based on how 
frequently you access each object
- 99.999999999 durability 
- Optimised for cost

### What are the two models for data consistency in S3?
- Read after write consistency fo PUTs of new objects
- Eventual Consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (Can take some time to 
propagate)

